= ActiveSP Release 0.0.3 "Under Pressure" (Aug 27th 2010)

== What?

ActiveSP is a library for talking to SharePoint through its web services in an
object-oriented way.

At the moment it only provides read-only access. Write access is on the way!

== Why?

Because Ruby is great and SharePoint's popularity is a fact of life.

== When?

This library is pure Ruby and does not need a Ruby VM running on .NET (such as IronRuby).
Use this library when using IronRuby is not an option, or when it needs to run on more
than IronRuby.

The web services are not fully functional and somewhat slow, so if you can use
the .NET platform then consider talking to the .NET API's directly instead.

== How?

Install the gem and its dependencies:

  gem install activesp

Create a file <tt>test.rb</tt> like this:

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'activesp'

  def browse(item, indentation = 0)
    puts "  " * indentation + "- " + item.class.to_s + " : " + item.url
    case item
    when ActiveSP::Site
      puts "  " * indentation + "    Title = #{item.Title}, Description = #{item.Description}"
      item.sites.each { |site| browse(site, indentation + 1) }
      item.lists.each { |list| browse(list, indentation + 1) }
    when ActiveSP::List
      puts "  " * indentation + "    Description = #{item.Description}, Hidden = #{item.Hidden}"
      item.items.each { |item| browse(item, indentation + 1) }
    when ActiveSP::Folder
      item.items.each { |item| browse(item, indentation + 1) }
    when ActiveSP::Item
      item.content_urls.each do |url|
        puts "  " * indentation + "    Content URL = #{url}"
      end
    end
  end

  c = ActiveSP::Connection.new(:login => "your login", :password => "your password", :root => "URL of root site")

  browse(c.root)

Run <tt>ruby test.rb</tt> and it will print the structure of your SharePoint site.

The examples directory contains this example plus a few others. We will add more along the way.

== Support

We support read access to sites (webs), lists, items, documents, folders, content type,
columns (fields), content, users, groups, roles.

We support write access to list items (including documents).

We do not yet support life cycles, versions, full write support.

== Compatibility

We have tested ActiveSP with SharePoint 2007 and SharePoint 2010. ActiveSP has been tested
on Mac OS X with Ruby 1.8.6, but we do not see any reason why it would not work on Linux
or Windows, or with other Ruby implementations.

As of release 0.0.3, we have not tested extensively on SharePoint 2007 so we can't guarantee
compatibility.

== Changelog

=== ActiveSP Release 0.0.3 "Under Pressure" (Aug 27th 2010)

=== ActiveSP Release 0.0.1 "Space Oddity" (Apr 9th 2010)

Initial release

== License

ActiveSP is released under the MIT license. The usual disclaimers apply, including that we are
not responsible for inevitable Ruby addiction.

See the LICENSE file included in the distribution for further details.

== Who?

ActiveSP is copyright (c) 2010 XAOP bvba

Visit us at http://www.xaop.com.
